The spy program and dynamic link library, is a sample application that
hooks the HK_INPUT and/or HK_SENDMSG hooks, and spys on what messages
are sent to which window.  

The application currently has two threads:
  1) The main thread controls the user interface.
  2) The second thread waits for messages from the hooks.

This tool is very useful for debugging, and looks up symbols
from symbol files with the "Spy...List Near Symbol..." selection.
This is "context sensitive" -- given the appropriate PID, you can
identify symbols given that context.  For example, you could run
another application, look at the window for that application
(using the Windows...Window List... option), get the window's PID,
and perhaps print out where in the window procedure you are (by
looking in the Pfnwp: field).

Note:  Since the "List Near Symbol" dialog box is modeless, you can move
it off to the side while you work on something else (although its position
is saved relative to the SPY main window).


File List:
  message.c	- Processes Message dialog box
  options.c	- Processes Options style dialog boxes
  queues.c	- Processes "Message Queue List" dialog
  readme	- This file
  spy		- Make file for the program and the DLL
  spy.c		- The source to the executable program
  spy.def	- Definition file for executable program
  spy.exe	- Executable
  spy.h		- Headers
  spy.ico	- The icon for the application
  spy.rc	- The resource file
  spy.sym	- SPY symbol file
  spydlgs.dlg	- Dialog definitions
  spyhook	- Makefile for the SPYHOOK library
  spyhook.c	- Source to the DLL
  spyhook.def	- Definition file for the DLL
  spyhook.h	- Header file for the DLL
  spyhstrt.asm	- Startup code for the DLL
  spytbls.c	- Output Message Tables for SPY program
  spyutil.asm	- Assembly language utility routines
  symbol.c	- Code for displaying symbols
  symbol.h	- Headers needed to read .SYM symbol files
  window.c	- Spy Window dialog processing

  spyhook.h	- include file gets copied to ..\include
  spyhook.lib	- import library gets copied to ..\lib (and deleted)
  spyhook.dll	- dynamic link library gets copied to ..\dll (and deleted)
  spyhook.sym	- symbol file gets copied to ..\dll (and deleted)

Note:   This application needs "selector.h", which should be in ..\include.


Bugs:	Spy...List Near Symbol produces a dialog box with a size border.
	However, the controls are not always redrawn as expected if you
	change the size of the dialog box.
