
6-23-88, Peter Nelson


These are BYTE magazines new benchmark programs.  The source code
for these programs is written in the small-c language.  Small-c was
originally written for CP/M by J.E Hendrix.  BYTE magazine has re-
written it for improvements.  If you are interested in 'C' programming,
download the file SMALL-C2.ARC.  Both the benchmark programs and
the small-c compiler are explained in the June, 1988 issue of BYTE
magazine.  Basically speaking, these are the only benchmarks that 
really work.  The others are all seriously flawed, even the old 
BYTE magazine benchmarks are no good!

Note: there were minor typographical errors in MATRIX.C and SCDSSK.C.
One had a misspelled variable, the other an un-closed comment.  These
have been corrected.  Four of the .C files are not meant to be programs,
but are meant to be linked with the others to provide necessary routines.
I have left the .OBJ files for these, otherwise each .C source file has a
corresponding .EXE program.

What follows is the original text of the README file as it came
from BYTE magazine.  Have fun and learn 'C'!

Finis, Mongo


----------------------------------------------------------------------


BYTE Low-leve Benchmarks for IBM PC, XT, AT, and compatibles.
April, 1988

Written in BYTE Small-C.
BYTE Small-C is adapted from Small-C created by Ron Cain and extended by
J.E. Hendrix.

Files in this archive:

SIEVE.C - The Sieve of Eratosthenes
SORT.C - The Sort benchmark; includes algorithms for Quicksort, Shellsort, and
         Heapsort.
MATRIX.C - The Matrix benchmark.  Adds two matrices, multiplies two matrices,
           and takes the transpose of a matrix.  Assumes square matrices.
MOVE88.C - String move benchmark.  Moves a block of bytes from a source to
           a destination.  The move is done byte-wide and word-wide.  The
           word-wide move is done on even- and odd-byte boundaries.
FLOAT88.C - Floating-point coprocessor benchmark.  Two phases: (1) tests
            fundamental math operations (add, subtract, multiply, divide) and
            (2) tests transcendental functions sin(x) and e^x by performing
            a trapezoidal integration.
SCFM87.C - 8087 Floating-point library.  Used by FLOAT88.C.
GRAPH88.C  - Low-leve graphics benchmark for CGA, EGA, MCGA, VGA, MDA and
                Hercules monochrome modes.
TEXT.C - Text display benchmark.
VIDEO.C - Video support library used by GRAPHICS88.C and TEXT.C.
SCFILEIO.C - File I/O benchmark.  Tests disk throughput at the filesystem
             level.
SCDSSK.C - DOS-level disk test.  Benchmarks disk throughput at the DOS level...
           beneath the filesystem.
SCHDSEEK.C - Hard disk seek benchmark.  Reads raw disk sectors.
SCBIGWT.C - Write a 1,000,000-byte file and time the results.
SCBIGRD.C - Read a 1,000,000-byte file and time the results.
SCRAND.C - Random number generator.
SCSW88.C - Two routines for creating a software stopwatch.

--Richard Grehan
  BYTE Senior Technical Editor

  Thanks to:
  Tom Thompson and Curt Franklin
  BYTE Magazine
